This document is just a repository for some ideas for future versions. Nothing is approved, or set in stone, but just an idea to be shared.


2.1 ideas

Add a new modal type dialog plane. Text would be framed in a border, be on top of all other things (including menus) and require user action to remove. Provide modes for, OK, OK/Cancel, and Yes/No type boxes. App needs to know what was chosen.

Look into taking the hard coded strings out of the software and pulling them from some sort of string resource system.

Add Player Setup menu item.
	Move Call sign, password to this new menu
	Add Preferences for preferred FFA color and CTF/TeamFFA team.
	Show the tank for each choice (little spinner)
	Let them save these settings in user profiles.

Save the state of the current player's "first"
	On first launch, show welcome screen and tell them about registration
	On first FFA show them the rules
	On First TeamFFA show them the rules
	On First CTF show them the rules
	On First Team kill tell them it's bad
	On First Sever list tell them about servers
	Etc...

Put the registration requirements of the game into the game mode ( open, limited, reg only )

Make sure public servers can advertise to reg only.

Add "trueFFA" game mode. FFA where color doesn't mater ( like a normal death match ). Let the game go till score limits, and reset.

Change +s to be game mode sensitive and not add stupid flags ( don't add geno, or the mind affecters in true FFA, don't do PZ when no teleporters, etc.. )

Hide the cursor in the menu and show the menu controls on each menu page (lower right).

Let the server trigger effects from a message.

Add option to make the outer walls "bouncy" when you hit them

Add options to make all walls "bouncy" when you hit them.

Make the outer walls have a thickness.

Simplify texture menu (High, med, low)

Get radar updates from messages, not player pos ( allows server to change how radar works ).

Change the HUD so that it doesn't need the cursor, but shows the speed and acceleration of each axis. Add a real target sight.

Add a HUD based warning that shows the direction of a near miss (flash warning when you almost died, in a kind of halo style).

Put a HUD "lock on" box over the target you are locked onto.

Show a HUD marker for team mates on the HUD

Make the HUD target sight turn a "bad" color when you are aiming at a team mate.

HUD indicator for vertical speed.

Add an antenna to the tanks

Add a little "radio beacon" on the antenna when someone does a chat.

Add a mode that will not let you shoot when aiming at a team mate (default to on? )

Add a server mode that just let's shots go thru teamies, or just doesn't do any friendly fire damage.

Let TrueFFA players pick any color (even the rabbit ones, and add some more).

Split out team from color (lets the server do more).

Make the tank easy to draw anywhere (like in the menu ).

Make the installer ask if you want to reg, and explain why it's a good thing(tm)

Make a method where the client can open a URL in a browser on each OS ( security? )

Add "TrueCTF" game option. Flags snap to the base. Your flag must be at your base to cap other team. Dropped team flag warps to base on teamie touch. On a cap, 5 second countdown with no scoring, then a forced respawn for everyone.

Make the server able to do respawns of people with out killing them

Make server able to send players to the prespawn "limbo" but not let them spawn ( for game modes, as well as a command to let admins "hold" people while they talk to them )

Let the server set the prespawn limimbo message ( default is the RC to spawn ).

Add new effects

Add accell/ decell effects (burning tread)

Add burrow trail

Add burrow sparks

Add steamroller sparks

Add prims for sphere, torus, and partial torus for effects use.

Add a collision effect.

Add some sparks of the shot color to rico

Make the GM be a missile, add some real smoke to it.

Jump flash needs to be faster and taller.

Land s/b wider not taller, and have multiple flashes that come out. Make the speed and size get faster/larger on a bigger fall.

Add some contrails to long falls.

Death effect sucks, make use torus, and add more flashes. Maybe different effect for ground vs. air death.

Ring spawn effect sucks, add a "digital" type cylinder around the tank

Let effects set tank spawn to grow, fade, or pop.
