Filtering
=========

BZFlag has the ability to filter text on both the server and in the client.
Filtering is provided as a means for users and server operators to prohibit
specific content.  Server operators may impose some control on the chat content
of their servers, as well as potentially specify callsigns that are deemed
unacceptible.  Users also have the ability to filter chat messages regardless
of how a server is configured.

In general, filtering is intended to provide a means to censor obscene, 
profane, and generally very offensive content.  A "bad words" list is fed to
the filter and content that matches any of the words in it are censored.

Although any censor or filtering system is inherintly not going to catch all
potential situations of abuse, it is sufficient to prevent "accidents" as well
making the user have to take active action to bypass the filtering.  There is
rather strong emphasis placed on the difference between preventing passive
inappropriate chat content and preventing players that actively attempt to
cause trouble on servers (aka assclowns).  The latter will ultimately be able
to find means around the filtering and are best handled by either the voting
system or more traditional administrative means (bans and kicks).  The filter
has been shown to be rather effective, however, at preventing accidental
moments of disgust by generally unoffensive players.


Client Filtering
----------------

It can be done.  It involves throwing a bad words file into your BZFlag 
configuration directory and adding a line to your configuration file.


Server Filtering
----------------

In the default mode, the filter will be "aggressive" in how it compares
what is specified in the bad words file, matching many common variations
of input automatically.  There is a more simple mode provided on the server
filter that will allow a more simple exact match comparison.  While in general
exact match comparisons are not useful for prohibiting any sort of content, it
is much less demanding on a system that the default filter.

There are server options.  See the bzfs manpage for more details.


The Bad Words File
------------------

The format of the bad words file is rather simple.  There is one word or phrase
specified on each line.  Spaces and punctuation are significant (i.e. if you 
specify them, they must also match).  Comments may be added to the file in a 
shell script style by preceeding the comment by a "#" character; the comment
continues until the end of the line.  Empty lines are fine.

Compiling a rather comprehensive list of truely offensive words is a rather
unappealing and time-consuming task.  It gets even more complicated when you
begin to consider the international community that BZFlag players interact with
on a day to day basis.  So, we done it for you.

There are two default filter files in the misc/ directory of the BZFlag source
code releases.  One file (misc/multilingualSwearList.txt) is a comprehensive
list of obscene and offensive words and phrases in dozens of languages.  The
file is updated as corrections and additions are made.  The other more simple
file (misc/simpleSwearList.txt) is provided for systems that cannot handle the
resource requirements of the complete list.  Either list may be used as a
starting point for server administrators and users that wish to enable
filtering.  Both lists are written for the default aggressive filtering mode,
but will also work with the simple filter.

There are lots of details regarding how the aggressive filter behaves that 
should probably be documented here as well.
